Add HashMap (#427)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/hash-map/hash-map.md

HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();
```

## Creating a HashMap

In Java, a `HashMap` can be created in the following way:

Identify the datatype of the key and the value for the key-value pair. Then follow the following template to create a new `HashMap`.

`HashMap<KeyDatatype, ValueDatatype> HashMapName = new HashMap<KeyDatatype, ValueDatatype>();`

```java
  import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

  // Create a HashMap which stores courses and their teachers as a key/value pair 
  HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();
```

Here, courseTeacher stores the key value Course which is of `String` type and the value are the Teacher assigned for the course which is also of `String` type.

```java
  import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

  // Create a HashMap which stores students and their marks as a key/value pair
  HashMap<String, Integer> studentMarks = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
```

Here, studentMarks stores the key value Student name which is of `String` type and the value are the Marks secured by the student which is also of `Integer` type.

## Key-Value

> A `Key` can be used to uniquely identify a `Value` in a `HashMap`. This allows for efficient data storage and easy access. In the example below the `Course Names` are the `Keys` and the `Teacher` assigned are the `Values` which can be accessed using the `Key` which is the corresponding `Course Names`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key can be used to uniquely identify a value in a `HashMap`. This allows for efficient data storage and easy access. In the example below, the course names are the keys and the teachers assigned are the values that can be accessed using the corresponding key.
```

```java

> import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;
```

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // Add keys and values (CourseNames, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    System.out.println(courseTeacher.get("Physics"););
    // Output: Lily

    System.out.println(courseTeacher.get("History"););
    // Output: Ben
  }
}
```

## Adding Items

> In Java, an item can be added to a `HashMap` using the `put()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Java, an item can be added to a `HashMap` using the `.put()` method.
```

> The `put()` method takes in 2 attributes. The first attribute is the key and the second attribute is the corresponding value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.put()` method takes in 2 attributes:

- key
- value
```

```java

> import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;
```

Although I'm suggesting this for each import statement, one thing we can do is add a line about it when we brought it into our code snippet for the first time. If there is an explanation or even a **Note:** (outside not inside the code snippet), we could even omit the import statements that follow the one time it says `import java.util.HashMap;`.

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // Add keys and values (CourseNames, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    System.out.println(courseTeacher); 
    //Output: {Mathematics=Jeanette, History=Ben, Physics=Lily}

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  }
}
```

## Accessing an Item

> In Java, an item can be accessed within a `HashMap` using the `get()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Java, an item can be accessed within a `HashMap` using the `.get()` method.
```

> The `get()` method takes in 1 attribute which is the key and returns the corresponding value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.get()` method takes in one attribute which is the key and returns the corresponding value.
```

```java
courseTeacher.get("Physics");

> //Returns "Lily" which is the value for the key "Physics"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Returns "Lily" which is the value for the key "Physics"
```

```

## Removing Items

> In Java, an item can be removed from a `HashMap` using the `remove()` method.
> 
> The `remove()` method takes in 1 attribute which is the key and the method deletes the corresponding key-value pair from the `HashMap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Java, an item can be removed from a `HashMap` using the `.remove()` method.

The `.remove()` method takes in 1 attribute which is the key and the method deletes the corresponding key-value pair from the `HashMap`.
```

```java
courseTeacher.remove("Physics");
```

```java
import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // put(CourseName, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");
    
    courseTeacher.remove("Physics");
    System.out.println(courseTeacher); 

  }
}

> //Output: {Mathematics=Jeanette, History=Ben}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Output: { Mathematics = Jeanette, History = Ben }
```

```

The `clear` method can be used to delete all the items from the `HashMap`.

```java
courseTeacher.clear();
```

```java
import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // put(CourseName, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");
    
    courseTeacher.clear();
    System.out.println(courseTeacher); 

  }
}

//Output: {}
```

## Traversing through a HashMap

A `HashMap` can easily be traversed with the for-each loop.

The `keySet()` method can be used to obtain only the keys while the `values()` method can be used to obtain only values.

> ```java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/java
```

Reviewer: I'm thinking this could be a codebyte! If so, we don't need the commented output info.

---
Title: 'HashMap'

> Description: 'In Java, a HashMap is used to store items as a "key/value" pairs. The keys and values can be of either same or different types. java // Create a HashMap which stores courses and their teachers as a key/value pair  HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Used to store items as a key-value pairs. The keys and values can be of either same or different types.'
```

A few quick notes:

- Per [our content standards regarding meta-data](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md), the 'Description' should be (ideally) 150 characters or less. 
- The `Description` doesn't have to mirror the opening sentences verbatim. 
- Lastly, it should begin with a verb in the present-tense. (~~In Java, a HashMap is used to...~~ -> Used to...)

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'HashMap'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In Java, a HashMap is used to store items as key-value pairs. The key and value can be of the same or different data type.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Syntax

```

```java
// Create a HashMap which stores courses and their teachers as a key/value pair

> HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

Reviewer 2: The first code snippet for most Docs entries should be under a "## Syntax" header and be as general as possible. We seem to have such a code snippet already (below this one). 

Can we replace this:

```java
// Create a HashMap which stores courses and their teachers as a key/value pair
HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();
```

with this?

```java
HashMap<KeyDataType, ValueDataType> myHashMap = new HashMap<KeyDataType, ValueDataType>();
```

```

## Creating a HashMap

In Java, a `HashMap` can be created in the following way:

> ````java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```java
```

Always three back-ticks (```)

HashMap<KeyDatatype, ValueDatatype> HashMapName = new HashMap<KeyDatatype, ValueDatatype>();

```java
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;

  // Create a HashMap which stores courses and their teachers as a key/value pair
HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

> ````

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
```

```java
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;

// Create a HashMap which stores students and their marks as a key-value pair
HashMap<String, Integer> studentMarks = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
```

Here, `studentMarks` stores keys of student names of `String` type and values of marks secured by the student of `Integer` type.

## Key-Value

A key can be used to uniquely identify a value in a `HashMap`. This allows for efficient data storage and easy access. In the example below, the course names are the keys and the teachers assigned are the values that can be accessed using the corresponding key.

```java
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // Add keys and values (CourseNames, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    System.out.println(courseTeacher.get("Physics"););
    // Output: Lily

>     System.out.println(courseTeacher.get("History"););

Reviewer 2: For Docs, it isn't best practice to use techniques/functions/methods/etc. before they are formally introduced. This includes:

- Using `.put()` before it is introduced in "## Adding Items".
- Using `.get()` before it is introduced in "## Accessing an Item".

    // Output: Ben
  }
}
```

## Adding Items

In Java, an item can be added to a `HashMap` using the `.put()` method.

The `.put()` method takes in 2 attributes:

- key
- value

```java
// Import the HashMap class
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    // Add keys and values (CourseNames, Teacher)
    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    System.out.println(courseTeacher);

>     //Output: {Mathematics=Jeanette, History=Ben, Physics=Lily}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Output: {Mathematics=Jeanette, History=Ben, Physics=Lily}
```

  }
}
```

## Accessing an Item

> In Java, an item can be accessed within a `HashMap` using the `.get()` method.
> 
> The `.get()` method takes in one attribute which is the key and returns the corresponding value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An item can be accessed within a `HashMap` using the `.get()` method. It accepts one parameter, the key, and returns the corresponding value.
```

```java
courseTeacher.get("Physics");

> // Returns "Lily" which is the value for the key "Physics"

Reviewer 2: Can we move some of the code from lines 52-73 in here such as the `import` statement and the `main` method, and the `courseTeacher` declaration?

```java
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");
    courseTeacher.get("Physics"); // Returns "Lily"
  }
}
```

```

## Removing Items

> In Java, an item can be removed from a `HashMap` using the `.remove()` method.
> 
> The `.remove()` method takes in 1 attribute which is the key and the method deletes the corresponding key-value pair from the `HashMap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Items can be removed from a `HashMap` using the `.remove()` method. It accepts one parameter, the key, removes the corresponding key-value pair from the `HashMap`.
```

> ```java
> courseTeacher.remove("Physics");
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```java

> import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import java.util.HashMap;
```

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

>     // put(CourseName, Teacher)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    courseTeacher.remove("Physics");
    System.out.println(courseTeacher);

  }
}

// Output: { Mathematics = Jeanette, History = Ben }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Clearing a HashMap

```

> The `clear` method can be used to delete all the items from the `HashMap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.clear()` method can be used to remove all the items from the `HashMap`.
```

> ```java
> courseTeacher.clear();
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Let's use the more expanded version of this example.

```java

> import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import java.util.HashMap;
```

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

>     // put(CourseName, Teacher)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    courseTeacher.clear();
    System.out.println(courseTeacher);

  }
}

> //Output: {}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Output: {}
```

```

> ## Traversing through a HashMap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Traversing a HashMap
```

A `HashMap` can easily be traversed with the for-each loop.

> The `keySet()` method can be used to obtain only the keys while the `values()` method can be used to obtain only values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.keySet()` method can be used to obtain only the keys while the `.values()` method can be used to obtain only values.
```

For methods/functions lets use this format: `.methodName()`

> A `HashMap` can easily be traversed with the for-each loop.
> 
> The `keySet()` method can be used to obtain only the keys while the `values()` method can be used to obtain only values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `HashMap` can be traversed with the for-each [loop](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/loops). The `.keySet()` method can be used to obtain only the keys while the `.values()` method can be used to obtain only values.
```

For methods/functions, let's use this format: `.methodName()`

```codebyte/java

> import java.util.HashMap; // import the HashMap class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import java.util.HashMap;
```

public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    HashMap<String, String> courseTeacher = new HashMap<String, String>();

    courseTeacher.put("History", "Ben");
    courseTeacher.put("Mathematics", "Jeanette");
    courseTeacher.put("Physics", "Lily");

    System.out.println("Courses offered at our Institute:");

>     for (String i : courseTeacher.keySet())
>       System.out.println(i);
> 
>     System.out.println("\nTeachers teaching at our Institute:");
> 
>     for (String i : courseTeacher.values())
>       System.out.println(i);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for (String i : courseTeacher.keySet()) {
      System.out.println(i);
    }

    System.out.println("\nTeachers teaching at our Institute:");

    for (String i : courseTeacher.values()) {
      System.out.println(i);
    }
```

Let's stick with the opening/closing `{}`s.

  }
}

/*
Output:
Courses offered at our Institute:
Mathematics
History
Physics

Teachers teaching at our Institute:
Jeanette
Ben
Lily

> */

Reviewer 2: Since this output is pretty big, let's move this multi-line comment out and rewrite as something like this: 

The output will be:

```
Courses offered at our Institute:
Mathematics
History
Physics
Teachers teaching at our Institute:
Jeanette
Ben
Lily
```
